This is an experimental project which first, designs…. And second evaluates different 
 
approaches for offering recommendations to readers regarding books they may wish to 
 
purchase, as part of an online bookshop website. 
 
 
Today the World Wide Web has provided access to a vast array of information through the 
 
web pages, as a result of the Internet growth. Also, commercial activity on the Web has 
 
increased to the point where hundreds of new companies are adding Web pages daily. With 
 
this increase in the information sources, a problem of information overload occurs, in which 
 
the users are trying to deal with an excess of information that is not useful to them as they 
 
try to make sensible decisions (Losee, 1989).As a response to this problem, a range of tools 
 
to help with retrieving, searching, and filtering have been developed. 
 
 
The tool most widely used to alleviate the problem of information overload is the search 
 
engine. The benefits for the users from search engine technology have decreased as the 
 
number of web pages has grown. In addition, the user must first consider the large number 
 
of search tools available and decide which one to access. Then the user must interact with 
 
each one individually because search engines are typically not personalised to individual 
 
users or their prevailing context. Users usually make a choice on the basis of their personal 
 
experience or other people’s experience. Based on these facts, recommender systems have 
 
been developed to provide recommendations that help individual users identify content of 
 
interest by using the opinions of a community of users and/or the user’s preferences. 
 
 
Today various recommendation systems play an important role in supporting commercial 
 
websites to help users find items that they know they would like to purchase, as well as 
 
discover new items about which they had been unaware. The ability to persuade the 
 
consumers to buy a suitable item is a significant goal for any recommender system in an 
 
ecommerce environment. However, for any recommender system to be successful, the 
 
consumer must trust and accept the system’s recommendations.
